All right. Morning.
We're alive.
I am
I'm going to say eight out of 10
refreshed
from the weekend.
eight out of 10 refreshed,
which should be enough to get us over
the uh the finish line with this next
release.
Hey, Ahmed Amed. Um I got something cool
to show off.
Not this
right here.
So, this is
an unprecedented result.
I don't think you've really seen
something like this since OpenAI's work
in 2019.
Like, okay, you got a curve. Big deal.
What's What's the curve?
Uh, look at the x-axis.
Says step in the bottom left of the
graph there.
See that 11
+ 11?
Yeah, we are uh almost 400 billion steps
into training right now.
And we've got this very clean linear
train curve.
Oh, and this is soda by a lot.
So, um, there are probably going to be
some power interruptions. So, it's
probably going to take me a while before
I get to run the full scale thing that I
really want to do.
But, yeah, we're going to have the
longest train run ever, which will be
very cool.
Welcome, Arga, as well.
So, um, here's where we're at.
Last Friday and Saturday.
Oops. I also I have to put on my
calendar before I forget that I have I
got a meeting today
400 p.m. EST.
All right, let me put that on my
calendar and then I'll talk about what's
going on because we we've got some
pretty exciting stuff.
the uh the plan for today uh and the
plan sort of over the next week, we
pretty much have release done.
There are a couple more environments
that need to be put onto the website.
There are a few more environments that
need to have their models ported to C.
So, we have cool demos. Um there are a
few like administrative things. I want
to find an editor. Actually, if anybody
knows a good spot to get like decent
editors, I'd like somebody to cut me
together a 30 secondond trailer.
Obviously, we'll pay for that. Um,
and then I have to clean up some posts.
But other than that, like we have the
release ready to go. In fact, let me
just show this. Let me show this off
real quick, just so you can get an idea
of the scale. Uh, you might have seen
this if you were here late night on
Saturday. Otherwise,
This is the new docs page and it's got
some nice stuff. It's got, you know, all
these nice new demos. It's got new
tutorials that I got to go through all
that stuff. Um, but the main thing,
the ocean has expanded.
We now have 20 environments
uh ready to go. And I believe we should
get at least two more on here. Two big
ones depending on uh who's finished what
in the Discord. Potentially a couple
smaller ones as well. And these all work
like a convert environment. You have a
thousand agents in your browser.
got Tetris, which looks awesome. Thanks
to Hrien for that, or Adrien, I believe.
H Adrien,
your username is different from your
real name. You're I'm going to say your
username and forget. Yeah, we've got
this Tetris. It's very nice. Enduro,
which good. Freeway doesn't render quite
correctly. Cars don't have wheels for
some reason. But we do have uh
environment
Pac-Man which is pretty cool looking.
I don't know why the ghost chill for a
second at the start like that. But got
Pac-Man.
All sorts of nice environments. And then
we even have demo environments like this
one here. This is a fully commented
tutorial environment which really easy
to follow this along and see how this is
made. And this is kind of like the
simplest environment that you can make
that still is really cool for multi-age.
I always just take this thing. It's kind
of silly. I just go like this.
Background opacity to one. And I stick
this under my camera. I don't miss
messages or I miss fewer messages.
Let me change the extreme title and then
I think what we'll do is uh for the next
50 minutes or so just before breakfast
we will see uh if I can get a couple of
these other environments working with
the web. Impulse force is very cool.
Impulse force is very very cool and we
don't have that one on yet. So I
definitely want to do that.
I don't know how we change the title
annoyingly enough, but
There's also Robocode which is to
almost done with this. I put tactics
down here because we haven't had anybody
finish yet. But yeah, these are almost
done.
We'll see if we can get uh actually
there's captain in the chat right there.
We'll see if uh he has any ideas on how
to get this on the web.
Yeah. So, Impulse Wars doesn't build
from here, which is annoying.
Just uh sending one quick message on the
side here.
hair can be put on. Awesome. You're our
latest I merge right now. We put on
website.
Look at this. We have all these M's.
Un uninfinish shame go into the work of
work in progress of shame.
I put the uh the simple ones on as well,
you know. I put like target and squared
and all that.
Some of these are like
wrong. Oh, well, I I killed the the
server, so
obviously
not going to work, but the Tetris one is
really nice. Like this is just an
example of a really really well done
like new contributor
um environment because this is just so
cool.
I am working on a trading sim.
We uh we technically have one of those.
Oh yeah, we should we should figure out
about that one as well, Spencer, to see
what they want to do
cuz we have uh we have stuff to reply to
them on.
Render a moving plot each frame. Yep,
that's what we did.
I actually think that they should be
fine with us releasing that given uh
recent stuff.
Last frame tells the whole story though.
Yeah,
you want all M's on web. So I'm assuming
you want the C neural net code. So
Captain, what we're going to do for
that, I don't want to make people spend
forever writing these obnoxious C
networks. Um,
we can get something weaker on the like
for just the website to start with. Uh,
I'll probably just see like if I just
train like when's the last time you've
just tried to train like a linear plus
LSTM on this thing to see if it does
something. You know,
one exception is neural MMO. I'm going
to put in some work to actually make
that work because we have a ludicrously
good result.
on neural MMO. This thing is super human
and um I don't think anybody has ever
done a RL run of this scale on this
little hardware
that almost 400 billion steps
Where's our Terrap PR
sensor have a terror PR?
I guess I can technically just build it.
What's wrong with their banner?
So, Captain, I would just train like a
weaker one, right?
I would either set it to human control
or I would just uh have a weaker one for
now. Like, so we actually have the end
dynamics on the site so you can like
play it and stuff.
What do you mean you have a trade? We
technically we did some work in that
space. Uh that one wasn't released yet.
We should hopefully be able to release
that. We'd have like some basic thing.
It's not for the It's not for the normal
equities market though that I can say.
Yeah, we definitely need a better way of
like getting these nets onto the onto
the site more quickly
cuz all like the custom nets are just
very difficult to do.
Well, I mean either way, whatever the
dynamics are. Yeah, it's like you kind
of just can make a cool graph to have
something to render, but uh yeah, it's
like the last frame tells you well I it
depends like if you run it for a very
long time, right? Then like you can't
really compress you don't really want to
compress the whole graph necessarily.
Like sometimes you have like a rolling
window.
I think there are rigorous financial
mathematical models either. Like
if there were, you wouldn't be able to
ever make any money trading anything. it
would be fully optimized and these hedge
funds wouldn't have jobs.
I guess there's still information
asymmetry, but I don't Yeah.
Yeah. Problem with a lot of the models
is they're not very good, right? And
then also there's just massive ace. One,
they're not very good, and two, there's
massive information asymmetry.
What do you need building without it?
Would be nice, Captain, but the thing
that I just want most is I want to know
because like you don't have it hooked up
to the build script at all, but like
just how do I get a thing that I can put
onto the web? like how do I run the EMCC
build and get it onto the web? Like the
process, you can see me literally doing
this right now, right? I do build ocean
and name web. I copy it over. I add a
thumbnail. That's it. Reply to that on
Discord. Oh, okay. I'm dumb. I literally
have it on my screen here. Let since you
I have you right here. Make
impulse. Where is it?
Upper li
and then we'll see what this is and if
it's suitable.
Okay, so
that's not bad.
Um,
which which of these files do I actually
need?
Like there's cmate crap in the release
demo web, right?
Is it just demostar?
You need the
like.
Yeah, but you need more like it'll load
more files than just that.
Hang on.
HTML data js. There's no was uh
there's no map file.
Is anything else used like underscore
depths
You usually do need the HTML
cuz it's packed into
like this is what I have for breakout on
the right. You say
okay.
And uh
what is it to run this thing like make
release demo?
No.
Do I need new clang or whatever for
this?
Yeah, I just want to get a thumbnail for
it,
unless you have one.
Thumbnail needs to be screenshot from
the game in the original resolution,
which you can do just by pressing F12
with Ray Lib the builtin
Does it? I also used the screenshot
dimensions for I believe the render
dimensions.
Send me that.
I will add your
Yeah. So, I think it's like the clang
deapp or whatever.
It's a bit irritating that it's not even
a clang version that's on 1224, but
should give you a place of relative
honor
You will be free to PR a description
change to this as well.
Get you something though.
and have you already sent me how you
should be listed for Yes.
believe there's a I forget if you sent
me name or whatever.
Yeah, you can you can absolutely just in
fact what I'll do is you'll just be able
to PR it to the uh the puffer.ai
branch.
I hate heavy build systems for this
reason.
I I should already have all this stuff
though,
I guess.
I don't know why. Like my other build
should not work.
I don't know why it's using like
additional packages.
Rayb.
What happened to the textures?
Wait, what happened to the textures?
the lighting and stuff. Why is
everything flat shaded?
Is this This is not how it's supposed to
look, right?
And we have it looking way better than
this. Yeah, this thing is literally
transparent.
loaded resources.
I don't know. I'll have to see if they
show up on the website.
a white bong is massive here.
Oh, this broke everything. That's why
Oh, okay. It kind of does a thing.
Where's this garbage mcripting thing
for?
I don't know why that M script and bar
pops up. Like there's something
different with the build system.
I want to use this darn end. I want to
use this end. Like
you should be able to do stuff with it.
Yeah.
how's this even possible that it pops
like this jank texture open?
Oh, you need to have um so this thing
here like you can't you can't
dynamically load this. You got to look
at the way that I did my mcripting
command. You preload all the assets in
or like you preload specifically
resources/impulse wars.
Like I took care of this basically
but it can't find any of the assets. So
we have it on the website technically.
And what are these? two scripted bots or
something or no one scripted bot and
then you fine.
We have something on the website but
ideally fix
This is what GP like or whatever the
model is came up with sustainable
self-sufficient future. Sure.
I will be back after breakfast for
pretty much the whole rest of the day
Hey Spencer, I got to run for breakfast
in a sec. But yeah, the goal is to get
everything on the website. I want to
start like cutting like ideally even if
we don't have the agents in C, I want to
get clips of all the ends today so that
um I can like get a video editor to help
me cut them together.
and like figure out some cool way to
present them, you know?
All right, I can answer something quick
or I'll be uh or I'll be back in like 30
40 minutes.
Actually, here. What? What's the GPU
drive? Hang on.
What's the question?
Hey. Hey.
All right. So, the GPU drive thing. Um,
you know how we did the LSTM state reset
now? Yes.
So when you eval like rendering the eval
you have to reset the state with inside
of that function but that's dependent on
the length of that episode. So for GPU
drive you have to basically hardcode it
every 91 ticks on reample in order to
get the same performance in training but
that would screw with other
environments. So how would you like to
handle that in the pufferell file?
Uh, that's literally just for like
watching the policy back, right? That is
correct.
I mean, I can just have it in there and
comment it for saying 4GPU drive, but
yeah, I think just don't put it there
for now cuz like it's not going to make
a huge difference. It's literally just
for watching it. It doesn't affect
anything else. And the actual NYU guys
are going to have their own like
versions of stuff anyways,
I think. So, do not include that in my
PR. I don't say just don't include that
in the PR. Let's get that onto the
website. Let's chat with Eugene. Let's
get this plus Terraform
um into this in like some workable state
ideally. I'll put the school environ.
And like I I want to get the thing
merged pretty much. I just want to get
fine. I can probably get you pretty
decent clips for Terra in the grid
space. Um, I mean within a clip you'll
see it at least get to like I think so
far like up to 80 90% from zero. Yeah.
So for reference my plan is to just like
of all the non-trivial ends. I'm going
to just take clips at pretty much native
resolution, just screen recordings, not
GIFs. Uh I'm going to find I might just
find somebody on Upwork. Ideally I find
somebody that actually does stuff for
like YouTubers. Um because it's not just
like oh cut it all together, right?
ideally like I find somebody that can
help me like come up with a cool way to
present it. Um,
also we have like actual superhuman
neural MMO policy now. So Oh, sick.
Yeah, we have uh I mean look at this
train cry. This is 400 billion steps.
Jesus Christ. 400 billion. Yes, it's
technically cued for a trillion if they
don't screw up my power
and it goes straight up.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that doesn't look
like that's slowing down at all.
You might even see nine at this rate.
Good.
So, yeah. Uh, and also, I think that
this is like an undershot because when I
actually watch the agents, they get to
12, but I think that some of them get
spawn killed. Sure. I don't think I've
ever gotten 1212.
Like, playing it. It's hard. It's hard.
What again does that represent? Is it
like how many skills you level up to or
something? It's level 12 in combat and
forging. So that requires you to defeat
uh 12 enemies of around your level and
then it requires you to uh harvest I
believe it's eight tier one resources
and then like four tier two.
Cool. All right. Yeah, that so that's my
question. I'll I'll make sure just to
not have that in the thing. I just
wanted to make sure that it did
represent I did figure out why my thing
was off by a little bit. I had an off by
one on my tick resets um on eval. So
that was why I wasn't getting 99 every
time, but now it does. So we're totally
good on uh on the rendering eval for GPU
drive 99.7%.
Awesome. Hopefully we get this to Eugene
and then Terraform will go up there and
GPU drive and then we'll have two that
are like not just games. It's like, hey,
we can kind of gify whatever.
Did you want to put GPU drive in Ocean
or in uh work in progress?
I'm going to move both of these up to be
fair. Like, as soon as you give me a
policy,
I'm going to put them both. Yeah. I
mean, we can change them. It's There's
not really a versioning thing. It's just
stuff that like doesn't even train or
whatever I put down here. So, like this
will go up. Yeah. And I'm going to fix
uh whatever happened with tower climb
train training right now. Yeah, but let
me go ahead and make that VR
on the site.
Yep. Like these are all pretty good. And
I now this is more than 20 ms. Like
oceans expanded.
Yeah. This one is just such a good
example of like know what new
contributors can do in like a reasonable
amount of code that still looks awesome.
Like look at this thing.
Tetris. Yeah, look how freaking cool
this is for being like a relatively
simpler env.
Well, I don't think it's actually
superhuman. It's better than amateur
player though. Mhm. Do you think if you
just Is that just a matter of training
at this point? Training and a little bit
of fiddling. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, that's really fun to
watch, right?
So, I don't know if we're going to want
to do something where we like, you know,
categorize like the best ends or
something. Um,
but I think we definitely should have
like, you know, our preferred set of M's
that we use for experiments. And like I
think that this is going into that to
that list.
All right, I gotta go. I will be uh back
after breakfast. See you, Spencer.